# Project Proposal for MarkIt
### Project Requestor: B.J. Johnson, Professor of Computer Science - rjohns19@lmu.edu

## Description:

MarkIt is our new application for selling and purchasing used goods within a college community. We aim to simplify the whole buying experience by implementing systems to seamlessly unify the buyer and seller on a college campus. The application will be available through three different platforms via Android, iOS, and web. Unlike similar applications like Ebay or craigslist, this service is aimed towards students in college. This adds a level of security and reliability since accounts will be tied to a valid .edu email address. The base functionality of this application will enable users to search, sell, purchase, and track goods for sale. One of the central features of our application will be our robust implementation of user profiles. On their profiles, users will be able to show what items they are interested in potentially buying. Additionally, users will be able to clearly indicate their preferred forms of payment (e.g., cash, check, or Venmo). Finally, and perhaps most importantly, user profiles will be tied to user reviews, which can be made by both buyers and sellers. This feature will allow users to gauge the trustworthiness of each other. By looking at a vendor’s profile, for example, a user will be able to view how positively, or negatively, customer experiences underwent with that specific vendor. Therefore, if a user receives poor reviews due to scamming or lying about their products, buyers will be able to see this, and avoid them for future transactions. 

Posting things for sale will contain similar depth and utility for our application. When posting a sale listing, users will be able to add the usual staples, which include images, a text description, and a price. Sellers will also be able to “tag” their postings, which will act as a terse and streamlined way of describing their object; similarly, users trying to find and buy merchandise can use the tags to list only their desired objects. Finally, our sale postings will also include an option to drop a GeoTag. Through a map view, this feature will let users visualize the locations of the things they need. Searching for items to buy will act similarly to craigslist since both list and show items from a certain area on a map. However, unlike in the aforementioned application, if an item is currently unavailable, MarkIt will allow users to track products that they are interested in buying, and subsequently notify them when the items’ status change. Along with this, our application will showcase an integrated, functional, and intelligent chat system. Not only will users be able to effortlessly communicate with buyers and sellers directly and instantly within the application, but there will also be an option to make offers in the chat system that will eventually enable users to use Venmo or Google Wallet to make their transactions.

## Justification:
    
We formulated this idea through dealing with Facebook pages like “Free and For Sale” and trading books and furnitures with other students at the end of every school year, which made us realize that there is a potentially huge market within college communities. Students tend to swap and sell used goods frequently as they move in and out of their dorms, houses, apartments, clubs, etc. Therefore, we want to provide a platform for students to do so within a safer, more enclosed market (i.e., between academic campuses). 

At the end of the semester, we hope to create an application that is available on the web, as well as Android and iOS devices, that provides a service that delivers seamless user interactions, dynamic functionality, and easy maintainability. Team members will be split into three separate sub-teams that will focus on developing in one of the three aforementioned platforms. Each sub-team will be faced with the challenge of learning how to build the application in accordance to their respective platform. Working on this project will require students to use concepts and ideas they learned from past classes. For example, lessons from Interaction Design (CMSI370) would be useful when designing the graphical user interfaces for all the three instances of the application. Data structures (CMSI281) and Algorithms (CMSI282) would be useful when sorting and retrieving information quickly for the user. The programming paradigms we learned from Programming Languages (CMSI385) can aid us in optimizing our codebase while learning platform-specific languages. For example, the iOS team will learn programming in Swift and using Xcode, an IDE specifically designed for creating mobile applications in Apple devices. Therefore, every team will learn how to code the front-end and back-end of their platform. Within the time frame of one semester, we will hopefully be able to launch MarkIt for the iOS, Android, and web. With nine members separated into three groups, the workload is appropriately designated and minimized so that each member contributes equally, which will hopefully allow us to produce our minimum viable product.